#summary Current status of Story Steward

_Story Steward_ is currently in beta, and there are numerous features which are planned but have not yet been added to it. It is hoped that by releasing it as an open source project, it will be easier to get suggestions for future improvements.

If you are looking for a good novel writing software, but are unsure about using a beta project, please try it out. If you don't like it, [Support contact] this project and let me know what's wrong. Maybe it's something that can be fixed.

Story Steward is intended to run on Firefox, Internet Explorer, Opera and webkit-based browsers like Safari and Chrome. However at this point it has only been tested on Firefox and Internet Explorer. Further, [http://code.google.com/p/story-steward/issues/detail?id=1 Issue #1] prevents it from running properly on Internet Explorer.

As I'm also a struggling writer and have other paying projects to work on, I can't spend all my time working on this software for free. For that reason, this project will see small spurts of activity now and then, with possibly several months between where nothing is happening while I'm working on other projects.

If you want to hurry up progress, there are several things you can do: 
  # [Support Let me know] that you're interested in this project, and especially what features you want me to finish, or bugs you want me to fix. This reminds me that my users are waiting, and may give me a nudge to finish up something that is only a couple hours from being done.
  # If you know how to write !JavaScript, [Support offer to help]. Even better, get the development package from the downloads page or check the code out via subversion, have a look at it, [Building build it] and see if you can fix any of the bugs or figure out how to add new features. If you can, let me know.
  # [Support Donate some money to the project]. I should warn you, however, that programming labor is not cheap, so one person throwing ten dollars at me once a year isn't going to get much done. Which brings up the last thing you can do:
  # Tell anyone you know who might be interested about this program, and point them to this website so they can try it out.